# DSA-COVID19MortalityData-BTree-HashTable
Program to allow easy access to demographic and time specific COVID-19 mortality data. Additionally, the program was designed to utilize both a B Tree and a Hash Table to store the mortality data. For each search, the efficiency of the data structures is compared. 

In main, the program reads Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) data on COVID-19 mortality data from csv file. The csv file includes over 137,000 rows and separates mortality data by state, age range, time, and gender. Each line of data is read into usable variables and inserted into the data structures. Subsequently, the user is prompted to select a specific subcategory of the data. For example. Female Georgia residents aged 18-29 who died of COVID-19 in April 2021. The program will search both data structures and output the results. Subsequently the search is repeated one million times, and the efficiency of the Hash Table is compared with the efficiency of the B-Tree. 

For the Hash Table, the death data for each subcategory is stored in an array. Specifically, a hash function is utilized to create a unique index for every possible combination of state, age range, and time combination. Additionally, an object with integer pointers is stored at each index to resolve collisions based on overlapping gender information. 

For the B Tree, every possible combination of state, age range, time, and gender are assigned a unique integer identifier. Subsequently, integer pairs of category identifiers and mortality data are inserted into the tree. The B Tree conforms with standard conventions and allows for a maximum of three children in non-leaf nodes and a maximum of 98 keys in all leaf nodes. The balanced nature of the tree is maintained by automatic splitting of nodes once they reach the maximum key capacity. 
